# DBC Impressions
####
#### 9-18-2014



Watching Shereef's Fireside Chat made me realize how my perspective of web development has changed over the years. I am excited to be a part of a culture with people striving for a "kitchen" mindset that will mold us not only into better web developers, but better learners as well.

Before watching the video, I already knew that the DBC experience would be different from most structures of learning and that we will have to learn as quickly and as much as possible on our own two feet. With technology rapidly growing and evolving, I appreciate that DBC aims to teach their students by encouraging them to teach themselves. Having a job in this field will require us to learn and keep up as technology continues to advance over time. On the other hand, as much as I see the need to be self-sufficient yet reliable, resourceful and communicative to others, I worry that I won't be able to keep up or learn as quickly as the majority of the group. I want to be just as useful and reliable to my cohort members as much as possible.

Despite the natural worries that I presume some of us will have, I am also excited. I like what Shareef said about having the "kitchen" mindset because it's something I will have to remind myself to have. What I get out of DBC, no matter how much or little I know, will ultimately be up to me. I want to go to DBC with a growth mindset and be able to look back at graduation and surprise myself with how much I was able to learn. I look forward to being in an environment where people are hungry to learn and eager to excel for themselves and others. I think the team effort and strong sense of a closely knit community will be very interesting because I believe keeping others inspired and helping others along the way will help us to excel beyond simply being better coders.

If I told my 20-year-old self enrolled in an intro computer science course that I would be going to a web development bootcamp, I most likely wouldn't have believed it. As an English major in a liberal arts school, I can still remember how out of place I strongly felt during the very first weeks of exposure to computer science. I decided that my strength came from creativity through writing rather than thinking logically and understanding theories behind digital threats. However, as I did various internships in the editorial field, I quickly saw that technology is a necessary and beneficial skill that could accompany any background in almost any field. Once I was introduced to coding through a friend who went to the Flatiron School and showed me how to program in a fun, non-scary way, I viewed technology through a completely different perspective. I'm motivated to learn and eager to see the various ways in which coding can be used for creative expression in this unique experience!